# i18n/l10n

## Definition

What do those acronyms actually mean?

* i18n = **I**nternationalizatio**n** (I, then 18 other letters, then n)
* l10n = **L**ocalizatio**n** (L, then 10 letters, then n)

> Internationalization is the design and development of a product, application or document content that enables easy localization for target audiences that vary in culture, region, or language.

> Localization refers to the adaptation of a product, application or document content to meet the language, cultural and other requirements of a specific target market.

Source: [W3C](https://www.w3.org/International/questions/qa-i18n)

## Localization Guide

### Getting started

First of all, please install the [Flutter Intl](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=localizely.flutter-intl) VS Code extension.

Flutter Intl uses `arb` files for translating which are located in `pizzaCalc/lib/l10n`. In addition Flutter Intl will need to generate a folder in `pizzaCalc/lib` which is missing in the GitHub repo.

Flutter Intl should automatically generate the `pizzaCalc/lib/generated` folder when you open the project in VS Code. This might not happen if you have the whole repo open within VS Code. In this case please try to open `pizzaCalc` individually.

### Add a new locale

Adding a new locale is as easy as executing `Flutter Intl: Add Locale` in the Command Palette (`Ctrl + Shift + P`).

**Please note: Additional Setup for iOS needed**

To enable localization for iOS apps, extend `ios/Runner/info.plist` file with the supported locales configuration.

You can find the list by searching for the key `CFBundleLocalizations`. This list should be consistent with the locales listed in the `pizzaCalc/lib/l10n` folder.

### Add new translation strings

1. Open a file located in `pizzaCalc/lib/l10n`.
2. Handle the file just like a standard JSON File and add new key-value pairs just as you please.
3. Add the same keys to every other file in `pizzaCalc/lib/l10n` and make sure you translate the value to the corresponding language.

**Key Naming**

The naming should roughly follow this pattern: `<module>_<widget/submodule>_<customIdentifier>`.

To maintain some structure within the `pizzaCalc/lib/l10n` files, we recommend sorting the keys ascending. Within VS Code you can easily do this by selecting all key-value pairs in a file and then executing `Sort lines ascending` in the Command Palette (`Ctrl + Shift + P`).

### Reference the translation strings in Dart Code

You should be able to access your translation string using `context.s.<your_key>`.

If you are not able to access your translation string, try:

1. Open the modified `pizzaCalc/lib/l10n/l10n_<locale>.arb`-file(s) and hit save. This should trigger the generator.
2. Open `lib/generated/l10n.dart`. This file contains the generated strings and by opening it, VS Code will update its contents.
